skills/agents/assets/scoped/cli.md, before:

<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections and order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: {{TIMESTAMP}} -->

# AGENTS.md — {{SCOPE_NAME}}

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START overview -->
## Overview
{{SCOPE_DESCRIPTION}}

Command-line interface tools and entry points.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END overview -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START setup -->
## Setup & environment
{{SETUP_INSTRUCTIONS}}
- CLI framework: {{CLI_FRAMEWORK}}
- Build output: {{BUILD_OUTPUT_PATH}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END setup -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START commands -->
## Build & tests (prefer file-scoped)
- Build CLI: {{BUILD_CMD}}
- Run CLI: {{RUN_CMD}}
- Test: {{TEST_CMD}}
- Lint: {{LINT_CMD}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END commands -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START code-style -->
## Code style & conventions
- Use flag parsing library consistently ({{CLI_FRAMEWORK}})
- Provide `--help` for all commands and subcommands
- Use `--version` to display version information
- Exit codes: 0 = success, 1 = general error, 2 = usage error
- Output: structured (JSON) for scripts, human-readable for interactive
- Errors: write to stderr, not stdout
- Progress: show for long-running operations
- Interactive prompts: support non-interactive mode with flags
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END code-style -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START security -->
## Security & safety
- Validate all file paths and prevent directory traversal
- Never execute user-provided code without explicit confirmation
- Sensitive data: never log or display in plain text
- Config files: validate schema and permissions
- Network operations: timeout and retry with backoff
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END security -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START checklist -->
## PR/commit checklist
- [ ] `--help` text is clear and accurate
- [ ] `--version` displays correct version
- [ ] Exit codes are correct
- [ ] Errors go to stderr
- [ ] Long operations show progress
- [ ] Works in non-interactive mode
- [ ] Tests cover main workflows
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END checklist -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START examples -->
## Good vs. bad examples
**Good**: Proper error handling
```{{LANGUAGE}}
if err := runCommand(); err != nil {
    fmt.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "Error: %v\n", err)
    os.Exit(1)
}
```

**Bad**: Errors to stdout
```{{LANGUAGE}}
if err := runCommand(); err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Error:", err)
}
```

**Good**: Clear help text
```
Usage: myapp <command> [options]

Commands:
  init     Initialize a new project
  build    Build the project
  deploy   Deploy to production

Options:
  --config string   Config file path (default: config.yaml)
  --verbose         Enable verbose output
```
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END examples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START help -->
## When stuck
- Review {{CLI_FRAMEWORK}} documentation
- Check existing commands for patterns
- Test with `--help` to ensure clarity
- Check root AGENTS.md for project conventions
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END help -->

## House Rules (project-specific)
<!-- This section is NOT auto-generated - add your project-specific rules here -->
{{HOUSE_RULES}}

Commit message:

feat(agents): high-ROI improvements and CI validation
High-ROI improvements:
- Make "verified ✓" conditional on actual verification data
- Remove empty command rows by not setting empty placeholders
- Add scope-specific file map and golden samples sections
- Replace generic examples with pointers to Golden Samples
- Add backend-python and backend-typescript scope handling

CI/Validation:
- Add validate-agents.yml workflow for this repo
- Add example workflow for users to adopt

Templates:
- Update all 12 scoped templates with Key Files and Golden Samples sections
- Simplify examples section to reference real code patterns
- Remove generic "Good vs. bad" examples that create false affordances

Generator:
- Add generate_scope_file_map() and generate_scope_golden_samples() functions
- Use set_if_present() helper to leave placeholders for row deletion
- Add VERIFIED_STATUS conditional placeholder

skills/agents/assets/scoped/cli.md, after:

<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections and order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: {{TIMESTAMP}} -->

# AGENTS.md — {{SCOPE_NAME}}

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START overview -->
## Overview
{{SCOPE_DESCRIPTION}}

Command-line interface tools and entry points.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END overview -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START filemap -->
## Key Files
{{SCOPE_FILE_MAP}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END filemap -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START golden-samples -->
## Golden Samples (follow these patterns)
{{SCOPE_GOLDEN_SAMPLES}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END golden-samples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START setup -->
## Setup & environment
{{SETUP_INSTRUCTIONS}}
- CLI framework: {{CLI_FRAMEWORK}}
- Build output: {{BUILD_OUTPUT_PATH}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END setup -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START commands -->
## Build & tests (prefer file-scoped)
- Build CLI: {{BUILD_CMD}}
- Run CLI: {{RUN_CMD}}
- Test: {{TEST_CMD}}
- Lint: {{LINT_CMD}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END commands -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START code-style -->
## Code style & conventions
- Use flag parsing library consistently ({{CLI_FRAMEWORK}})
- Provide `--help` for all commands and subcommands
- Use `--version` to display version information
- Exit codes: 0 = success, 1 = general error, 2 = usage error
- Output: structured (JSON) for scripts, human-readable for interactive
- Errors: write to stderr, not stdout
- Progress: show for long-running operations
- Interactive prompts: support non-interactive mode with flags
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END code-style -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START security -->
## Security & safety
- Validate all file paths and prevent directory traversal
- Never execute user-provided code without explicit confirmation
- Sensitive data: never log or display in plain text
- Config files: validate schema and permissions
- Network operations: timeout and retry with backoff
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END security -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START checklist -->
## PR/commit checklist
- [ ] `--help` text is clear and accurate
- [ ] `--version` displays correct version
- [ ] Exit codes are correct
- [ ] Errors go to stderr
- [ ] Long operations show progress
- [ ] Works in non-interactive mode
- [ ] Tests cover main workflows
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END checklist -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START examples -->
## Patterns to Follow
> **Prefer looking at real code in this repo over generic examples.**
> See **Golden Samples** section above for files that demonstrate correct patterns.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END examples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START help -->
## When stuck
- Review {{CLI_FRAMEWORK}} documentation
- Check existing commands for patterns
- Test with `--help` to ensure clarity
- Check root AGENTS.md for project conventions
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END help -->

## House Rules (project-specific)
<!-- This section is NOT auto-generated - add your project-specific rules here -->
{{HOUSE_RULES}}
