skills/agents/assets/scoped/testing.md, before:

<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections and order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: {{TIMESTAMP}} -->

# AGENTS.md — {{SCOPE_NAME}}

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START overview -->
## Overview
{{SCOPE_DESCRIPTION}}

Test suites, fixtures, and testing utilities for the project.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END overview -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START setup -->
## Setup & environment
- Install dev dependencies before running tests
- Some tests may require additional setup (see individual test files)
- Use the project's test framework consistently
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END setup -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START commands -->
## Running tests
- Run all tests: {{TEST_CMD}}
- Run specific test file: {{TEST_CMD}} <file>
- Run with coverage: {{TEST_CMD}} --coverage (if supported)
- Watch mode: {{TEST_CMD}} --watch (if supported)
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END commands -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START organization -->
## Test organization
- Group tests by feature or module
- Name test files to match source files (e.g., `foo_test.go`, `foo.test.ts`)
- Use descriptive test names that explain the expected behavior
- Keep fixtures and mocks in dedicated directories
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END organization -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START code-style -->
## Code style & conventions
- One assertion per test when possible
- Use descriptive test names: `test_should_return_error_when_input_is_empty`
- Avoid testing implementation details; focus on behavior
- Keep tests independent - no shared mutable state
- Mock external dependencies (network, filesystem, time)
- Use table-driven tests for multiple similar cases
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END code-style -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START security -->
## Security & safety
- Never commit real credentials in test fixtures
- Use environment variables or mock services for sensitive data
- Sanitize any test data that might contain PII
- Ensure test databases are isolated from production
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END security -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START checklist -->
## PR/commit checklist
- [ ] All tests pass locally
- [ ] New functionality has corresponding tests
- [ ] Test names describe expected behavior
- [ ] No hardcoded credentials or sensitive data
- [ ] Mocks are appropriate and maintainable
- [ ] Coverage hasn't decreased significantly
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END checklist -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START examples -->
## Good vs. bad examples
**Good**: Descriptive test name
```
test_should_return_validation_error_when_email_format_is_invalid
test_creates_user_with_valid_input
```

**Bad**: Vague test name
```
test_email
test_user_creation
test1
```

**Good**: Independent tests
```
func TestUserCreation(t *testing.T) {
    user := createTestUser()  // Fresh setup each test
    // assertions...
}
```

**Bad**: Shared state
```
var globalUser User  // Shared between tests - order-dependent!
```
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END examples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START help -->
## When stuck
- Check existing tests for patterns
- Review test framework documentation
- Ensure test isolation (no shared state)
- Check root AGENTS.md for project conventions
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END help -->

## House Rules (project-specific)
<!-- This section is NOT auto-generated - add your project-specific rules here -->
{{HOUSE_RULES}}

Commit message:

feat(agents): high-ROI improvements and CI validation
High-ROI improvements:
- Make "verified ✓" conditional on actual verification data
- Remove empty command rows by not setting empty placeholders
- Add scope-specific file map and golden samples sections
- Replace generic examples with pointers to Golden Samples
- Add backend-python and backend-typescript scope handling

CI/Validation:
- Add validate-agents.yml workflow for this repo
- Add example workflow for users to adopt

Templates:
- Update all 12 scoped templates with Key Files and Golden Samples sections
- Simplify examples section to reference real code patterns
- Remove generic "Good vs. bad" examples that create false affordances

Generator:
- Add generate_scope_file_map() and generate_scope_golden_samples() functions
- Use set_if_present() helper to leave placeholders for row deletion
- Add VERIFIED_STATUS conditional placeholder

skills/agents/assets/scoped/testing.md, after:

<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections and order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: {{TIMESTAMP}} -->

# AGENTS.md — {{SCOPE_NAME}}

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START overview -->
## Overview
{{SCOPE_DESCRIPTION}}

Test suites, fixtures, and testing utilities for the project.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END overview -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START filemap -->
## Key Files
{{SCOPE_FILE_MAP}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END filemap -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START golden-samples -->
## Golden Samples (follow these patterns)
{{SCOPE_GOLDEN_SAMPLES}}
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END golden-samples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START setup -->
## Setup & environment
- Install dev dependencies before running tests
- Some tests may require additional setup (see individual test files)
- Use the project's test framework consistently
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END setup -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START commands -->
## Running tests
- Run all tests: {{TEST_CMD}}
- Run specific test file: {{TEST_CMD}} <file>
- Run with coverage: {{TEST_CMD}} --coverage (if supported)
- Watch mode: {{TEST_CMD}} --watch (if supported)
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END commands -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START organization -->
## Test organization
- Group tests by feature or module
- Name test files to match source files (e.g., `foo_test.go`, `foo.test.ts`)
- Use descriptive test names that explain the expected behavior
- Keep fixtures and mocks in dedicated directories
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END organization -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START code-style -->
## Code style & conventions
- One assertion per test when possible
- Use descriptive test names: `test_should_return_error_when_input_is_empty`
- Avoid testing implementation details; focus on behavior
- Keep tests independent - no shared mutable state
- Mock external dependencies (network, filesystem, time)
- Use table-driven tests for multiple similar cases
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END code-style -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START security -->
## Security & safety
- Never commit real credentials in test fixtures
- Use environment variables or mock services for sensitive data
- Sanitize any test data that might contain PII
- Ensure test databases are isolated from production
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END security -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START checklist -->
## PR/commit checklist
- [ ] All tests pass locally
- [ ] New functionality has corresponding tests
- [ ] Test names describe expected behavior
- [ ] No hardcoded credentials or sensitive data
- [ ] Mocks are appropriate and maintainable
- [ ] Coverage hasn't decreased significantly
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END checklist -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START examples -->
## Patterns to Follow
> **Prefer looking at real code in this repo over generic examples.**
> See **Golden Samples** section above for files that demonstrate correct patterns.
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END examples -->

<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:START help -->
## When stuck
- Check existing tests for patterns
- Review test framework documentation
- Ensure test isolation (no shared state)
- Check root AGENTS.md for project conventions
<!-- AGENTS-GENERATED:END help -->

## House Rules (project-specific)
<!-- This section is NOT auto-generated - add your project-specific rules here -->
{{HOUSE_RULES}}
