README.md, before:

# AGENTS.md Generator Skill

Netresearch AI skill for generating and maintaining AGENTS.md files following the [agents.md specification](https://agents.md/).

> **What is AGENTS.md?** A simple, open format for guiding coding agents — adopted by 60,000+ open-source projects. Think of it as a README for AI agents. See the [official specification](https://agents.md/) and [best practices from 2,500+ repositories](https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/github-copilot/how-to-write-a-great-agents-md-lessons-from-over-2500-repositories/).

## 🔌 Compatibility

This is an **Agent Skill** following the [open standard](https://agentskills.io) originally developed by Anthropic and released for cross-platform use.

**Supported Platforms:**
- ✅ Claude Code (Anthropic)
- ✅ Cursor
- ✅ GitHub Copilot
- ✅ Other skills-compatible AI agents

> Skills are portable packages of procedural knowledge that work across any AI agent supporting the Agent Skills specification.


## Features

- **Thin Root Files** - ~30 lines with precedence rules and global defaults
- **Scoped Files** - Automatic subsystem detection (backend/, frontend/, internal/, cmd/)
- **Auto-Extraction** - Commands from Makefile, package.json, composer.json, go.mod
- **Multi-Language** - Templates for Go, PHP, TypeScript, Python, and hybrid projects
- **Idempotent Updates** - Preserve existing structure while refreshing content
- **Managed Headers** - Mark files as agent-maintained with timestamps

## Installation

### Option 1: Via Netresearch Marketplace (Recommended)

```bash
claude mcp add-json netresearch-skills-bundle '{"type":"url","url":"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netresearch/claude-code-marketplace/main/.claude-plugin/marketplace.json"}'
```

Then browse skills with `/plugin`.

### Option 2: Download Release

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/netresearch/agents-skill/releases/latest) and extract to `~/.claude/skills/agents/`

### Option 3: Composer (PHP projects)

```bash
composer require netresearch/agent-agents
```

**Requires:** [netresearch/composer-agent-skill-plugin](https://github.com/netresearch/composer-agent-skill-plugin)

## Usage

The skill triggers on keywords like:
- "AGENTS.md", "agents file"
- "agent documentation", "AI onboarding"
- "project context for AI"

### Example Prompts

```
"Generate AGENTS.md for this project"
"Update the agents documentation"
"Create scoped AGENTS.md files for each subsystem"
"Validate AGENTS.md structure"
```

## Supported Projects

| Type | Detection | Features |
|------|-----------|----------|
| Go | `go.mod` | Version extraction, CLI tool detection |
| PHP | `composer.json` | TYPO3/Laravel/Symfony detection |
| TypeScript | `package.json` | React/Next.js/Vue/Express detection |
| Python | `pyproject.toml` | Poetry/Ruff/Django/Flask detection |
| Hybrid | Multiple markers | Auto-creates scoped files per stack |

## Structure

```
agents/
├── SKILL.md              # AI instructions
├── README.md             # This file
├── LICENSE               # GPL-2.0-or-later
├── composer.json         # PHP distribution
├── references/           # Convention documentation
├── scripts/              # Generator scripts
│   ├── generate-agents.sh
│   ├── validate-structure.sh
│   └── detect-scopes.sh
└── templates/            # Language-specific templates
    ├── go/
    ├── php/
    ├── typescript/
    └── python/
```

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please submit PRs for:
- Additional language templates
- Detection signal improvements
- Script enhancements
- Documentation updates

## License

GPL-2.0-or-later - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Credits

Developed and maintained by [Netresearch DTT GmbH](https://www.netresearch.de/).

---

**Made with ❤️ for Open Source by [Netresearch](https://www.netresearch.de/)**

Commit message:

feat(agents): add agent-optimized AGENTS.md format v2
BREAKING: Templates restructured with new sections for AI agent efficiency.

New sections in root-thin.md:
- Commands (verified ✓) with time estimates
- File Map (dense dir → purpose format)
- Golden Samples (pattern references)
- Utilities List (don't reinvent)
- Heuristics Table (quick decisions)
- Codebase State (migrations, tech debt)
- Terminology (domain language)

New features:
- scripts/verify-commands.sh for command validation
- "Last verified" timestamp for trust scoring
- Language guidance (English default, match code naming)

Changes:
- Clarified AGENTS.md is FOR agents, not humans
- Relaxed checkpoint severity (spec has no required fields)
- Added new checkpoints AG-13 through AG-18
- Updated README to distinguish agents.md vs Agent Skills standards

Based on:
- arXiv research showing 16.58% token reduction
- GitHub best practices from 2,500+ repositories
- Claude + Gemini collaborative design (3 rounds)

README.md, after:

# AGENTS.md Generator Skill

Netresearch AI skill for generating and maintaining AGENTS.md files following the [agents.md specification](https://agents.md/).

> **What is AGENTS.md?** A context file written **for AI coding agents**, not humans. Human readability is a side effect, not a goal. Adopted by 60,000+ open-source projects. See the [official specification](https://agents.md/) and [best practices from 2,500+ repositories](https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/github-copilot/how-to-write-a-great-agents-md-lessons-from-over-2500-repositories/).

## Standards Compliance

This skill implements two complementary standards:

1. **[agents.md](https://agents.md/)** - The file format this skill generates. A simple Markdown convention for guiding AI coding agents, supported by Claude Code, GitHub Copilot, Cursor, and 60,000+ open-source projects.

2. **[Agent Skills](https://agentskills.io)** - How this skill is packaged and distributed. A portable format for procedural knowledge that works across AI agents.

**Supported Platforms:**
- ✅ Claude Code (Anthropic)
- ✅ Cursor
- ✅ GitHub Copilot
- ✅ Other skills-compatible AI agents


## Features

- **Thin Root Files** - ~30 lines with precedence rules and global defaults
- **Scoped Files** - Automatic subsystem detection (backend/, frontend/, internal/, cmd/)
- **Auto-Extraction** - Commands from Makefile, package.json, composer.json, go.mod
- **Multi-Language** - Templates for Go, PHP, TypeScript, Python, and hybrid projects
- **Idempotent Updates** - Preserve existing structure while refreshing content
- **Managed Headers** - Mark files as agent-maintained with timestamps

## Installation

### Option 1: Via Netresearch Marketplace (Recommended)

```bash
claude mcp add-json netresearch-skills-bundle '{"type":"url","url":"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netresearch/claude-code-marketplace/main/.claude-plugin/marketplace.json"}'
```

Then browse skills with `/plugin`.

### Option 2: Download Release

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/netresearch/agents-skill/releases/latest) and extract to `~/.claude/skills/agents/`

### Option 3: Composer (PHP projects)

```bash
composer require netresearch/agent-agents
```

**Requires:** [netresearch/composer-agent-skill-plugin](https://github.com/netresearch/composer-agent-skill-plugin)

## Usage

The skill triggers on keywords like:
- "AGENTS.md", "agents file"
- "agent documentation", "AI onboarding"
- "project context for AI"

### Example Prompts

```
"Generate AGENTS.md for this project"
"Update the agents documentation"
"Create scoped AGENTS.md files for each subsystem"
"Validate AGENTS.md structure"
```

## Supported Projects

| Type | Detection | Features |
|------|-----------|----------|
| Go | `go.mod` | Version extraction, CLI tool detection |
| PHP | `composer.json` | TYPO3/Laravel/Symfony detection |
| TypeScript | `package.json` | React/Next.js/Vue/Express detection |
| Python | `pyproject.toml` | Poetry/Ruff/Django/Flask detection |
| Hybrid | Multiple markers | Auto-creates scoped files per stack |

## Structure

```
agents/
├── SKILL.md              # AI instructions
├── README.md             # This file
├── LICENSE               # GPL-2.0-or-later
├── composer.json         # PHP distribution
├── references/           # Convention documentation
├── scripts/              # Generator scripts
│   ├── generate-agents.sh
│   ├── validate-structure.sh
│   └── detect-scopes.sh
└── templates/            # Language-specific templates
    ├── go/
    ├── php/
    ├── typescript/
    └── python/
```

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please submit PRs for:
- Additional language templates
- Detection signal improvements
- Script enhancements
- Documentation updates

## License

GPL-2.0-or-later - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Credits

Developed and maintained by [Netresearch DTT GmbH](https://www.netresearch.de/).

---

**Made with ❤️ for Open Source by [Netresearch](https://www.netresearch.de/)**
