SKILL.md, before:

---
name: agents
version: 1.1.0
description: Generate and maintain AGENTS.md files following the public agents.md convention. Use when creating documentation for AI agent workflows, onboarding guides, or when standardizing agent interaction patterns across projects.
license: Complete terms in LICENSE.txt
---

# AGENTS.md Generator Skill

Generate and maintain AGENTS.md files following the public agents.md convention.

## What This Skill Does

Creates hierarchical AGENTS.md documentation for software projects:

- **Thin root files** (~30 lines) with precedence rules and global defaults
- **Scoped files** for subsystems (backend/, frontend/, internal/, cmd/, etc.)
- **Auto-extracted commands** from Makefile, package.json, composer.json, go.mod
- **Managed headers** marking files as agent-maintained with timestamps
- **Language-specific templates** for Go, PHP, TypeScript, Python, and hybrid projects
- **Idempotent updates** that preserve existing structure

Based on analysis of 21 real AGENTS.md files across Netresearch projects.

## When to Use This Skill

- **New projects**: Establish baseline AGENTS.md structure
- **Existing projects**: Standardize agent documentation
- **Team onboarding**: Provide AI assistants with project context
- **Multi-repo consistency**: Apply same standards across repositories
- **Documentation updates**: Refresh after major changes

## Usage

### Generate for Current Project

```bash
# Basic generation (thin root + auto-detected scopes)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh .

# Dry-run to preview what will be created
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --dry-run

# Verbose output with detection details
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --verbose
```

### Template Styles

```bash
# Thin root (default, ~30 lines, simple-ldap-go style)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --style=thin

# Verbose root (~100-200 lines, ldap-selfservice style)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --style=verbose
```

### Update Existing Files

```bash
# Update timestamps and refresh auto-extracted content
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --update

# Force regeneration (overwrites existing, keeps structure)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --force
```

### Validation

```bash
# Validate existing AGENTS.md structure
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/validate-structure.sh .

# Check for missing scoped files
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .
```

## Supported Project Types

### Languages & Frameworks

- **Go**: Libraries, web apps (Fiber/Echo/Gin), CLI tools (Cobra/urfave/cli)
- **PHP**: Composer packages, TYPO3 extensions, Laravel/Symfony apps
- **TypeScript/JavaScript**: React, Next.js, Vue, Node.js, Express
- **Python**: pip, poetry, pipenv, Django, Flask, FastAPI
- **Hybrid**: Multi-language projects (auto-creates scoped files per stack)

### Detection Signals

| Signal | Detection |
|--------|-----------|
| `go.mod` | Go project, extracts version |
| `composer.json` | PHP project, detects TYPO3/Laravel |
| `package.json` | Node.js project, detects framework |
| `pyproject.toml` | Python project, detects poetry/ruff |
| `Makefile` | Extracts targets with `##` comments |
| `.github/workflows/` | Extracts CI checks |
| `docker-compose.yml` | Docker-first setup |

## Output Structure

### Thin Root (Default)

**~30 lines** following `simple-ldap-go` pattern:

```markdown
<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections & order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD -->

# AGENTS.md (root)

**Precedence:** The **closest AGENTS.md** to changed files wins. Root holds global defaults only.

## Global rules
- Keep PRs small (~≤300 net LOC)
- Conventional Commits: type(scope): subject
- Ask before: heavy deps, full e2e, repo rewrites
- Never commit secrets or PII

## Minimal pre-commit checks
- Typecheck: [auto-detected from build tools]
- Lint: [auto-detected from linters]
- Format: [auto-detected from formatters]
- Tests: [auto-detected from test runners]

## Index of scoped AGENTS.md
- `./backend/AGENTS.md` — Backend services
- `./frontend/AGENTS.md` — Frontend application

## When instructions conflict
Nearest AGENTS.md wins. User prompts override files.
```

### Scoped Files (9-Section Schema)

Each scoped file follows this structure:

1. **Overview**: Purpose of this subsystem
2. **Setup & environment**: Prerequisites, installation
3. **Build & tests**: File-scoped commands (preferred)
4. **Code style & conventions**: Language-specific standards
5. **Security & safety**: Security practices
6. **PR/commit checklist**: Pre-commit requirements
7. **Good vs. bad examples**: Concrete code samples
8. **When stuck**: Where to find help
9. **House Rules** (optional): Overrides of global rules

### Managed Header

All generated files include:

```html
<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections & order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: 2025-10-18 -->
```

This marks files as agent-maintained and provides update tracking.

## Auto-Detection Features

### Project Type Detection

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-project.sh .
{
  "type": "go-web-app",
  "language": "go",
  "version": "1.24",
  "build_tool": "make",
  "has_docker": true,
  "quality_tools": ["golangci-lint", "gofmt"],
  "test_framework": "testing",
  "ci": "github-actions"
}
```

### Scope Detection

Automatically creates scoped AGENTS.md for directories with ≥5 source files:

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .
{
  "scopes": [
    {"path": "internal", "type": "backend-go", "files": 15},
    {"path": "cmd", "type": "cli", "files": 3},
    {"path": "examples", "type": "examples", "files": 8}
  ]
}
```

### Command Extraction

Extracts actual commands from build tools:

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/extract-commands.sh .
{
  "typecheck": "go build -v ./...",
  "lint": "golangci-lint run ./...",
  "format": "gofmt -w .",
  "test": "go test -v -race -short ./...",
  "build": "go build -o bin/app ./cmd/app"
}
```

## Examples

Real-world examples from Netresearch projects in `references/examples/`:

### Go Library (simple-ldap-go)

**Perfect thin root** (26 lines):
- Minimal global rules
- File-scoped commands
- Clear scope index
- No duplication

### Hybrid App (ldap-selfservice-password-changer)

**Go backend + TypeScript frontend**:
- Root with quick navigation
- Scoped: `internal/AGENTS.md` (Go)
- Scoped: `internal/web/AGENTS.md` (TypeScript + Tailwind)

### PHP TYPO3 Extension (t3x-rte_ckeditor_image)

**Composer-based with Make targets**:
- Root with emoji headers
- Scoped: `Classes/AGENTS.md` (PHP backend)
- Scoped: `Documentation/AGENTS.md` (RST docs)
- Scoped: `Tests/AGENTS.md` (PHPUnit tests)

### Python CLI (coding_agent_cli_toolset)

**Script-heavy toolset**:
- Root with precedence focus
- Scoped: `scripts/AGENTS.md`

## Customization

### Override Templates

Copy templates to project and modify:

```bash
cp /tmp/agents-skill/templates/root-thin.md ./.agents-templates/root.md
# Edit ./.agents-templates/root.md
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --template-dir=./.agents-templates
```

### Add Custom Sections

Templates support placeholders:
- `{{PROJECT_NAME}}` - From package.json/composer.json/go.mod
- `{{PROJECT_TYPE}}` - Auto-detected type
- `{{LANGUAGE}}` - Primary language
- `{{BUILD_COMMANDS}}` - Extracted commands
- `{{QUALITY_TOOLS}}` - Detected linters/formatters
- `{{TIMESTAMP}}` - Current date (YYYY-MM-DD)

## Idempotent Updates

Safe to run multiple times:

1. Checks existing files
2. Preserves custom content in sections
3. Updates only auto-extracted parts (commands, versions)
4. Refreshes timestamps
5. Adds missing sections
6. No changes if nothing updated

## Validation

```bash
# Check structure compliance
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/validate-structure.sh .

# Validates:
# ✅ Root is thin (≤50 lines or has index)
# ✅ All scoped files have 9 sections
# ✅ Managed headers present
# ✅ Precedence statement in root
# ✅ Links from root to scoped files work
# ✅ No duplicate content between root and scoped
```

## Integration with Claude Code

### As Marketplace Skill

Add to `claude-code-marketplace`:

```json
{
  "name": "agents",
  "description": "Generate AGENTS.md files following public convention",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "source": "./skills/agents"
}
```

### Direct Usage

```bash
# Clone skill
git clone https://github.com/netresearch/agents-skill.git /tmp/agents-skill

# Generate for current project
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh .
```

## Structure Standards Application

**When creating root AGENTS.md files**, keep them thin (~30 lines):
- Include clear precedence statement at top
- Define minimal global rules only (PR size, commit format, safety)
- List pre-commit checks (typecheck, lint, format, test)
- Provide scope index linking to scoped files
- Move detailed setup to scoped files (not in root)
- Move language-specific patterns to scoped files (not in root)
- Move extensive examples to scoped files (not in root)

**When determining scope boundaries**, create scoped files for:
- Different technology stacks: `backend/`, `frontend/`, `api/`
- Package visibility: `internal/`, `pkg/` (Go projects)
- CLI tools: `cmd/`, `cli/`
- Utility scripts: `scripts/`
- Documentation and examples: `docs/`, `examples/`
- Testing infrastructure: `tests/`, `testutil/`

**When extracting commands**, automate extraction from:
- Makefile targets with `##` comments
- package.json scripts section
- composer.json scripts section
- CI workflow files (.github/workflows/, .gitlab-ci.yml)
- Never manually duplicate commands that exist in build tools

## Troubleshooting

### No Commands Detected

```bash
# Check what was detected
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/extract-commands.sh . --verbose

# Fallback: Specify commands manually
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --commands='{"lint":"make lint","test":"make test"}'
```

### Wrong Project Type

```bash
# Override auto-detection
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --type=go-library

# Supported types:
# go-library, go-web-app, go-cli
# php-library, php-typo3, php-laravel
# typescript-react, typescript-node
# python-library, python-cli
# hybrid
```

### Scoped File Not Created

```bash
# Check scope detection
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .

# Manually specify scopes
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --scopes=internal,cmd,examples
```

## Contributing

Improvements welcome! Common additions:
- New language templates
- Better command extraction
- Additional validation rules
- More real-world examples

## License

GPL-2.0-or-later (matching other Netresearch skills)

## References

- **Analysis**: `references/analysis.md` - Analysis of 21 real AGENTS.md files
- **Prompt**: `references/prompt.md` - Original generation prompt/rule
- **Examples**: `references/examples/` - Real-world AGENTS.md files
- **Best Practices**: `references/best-practices.md` - Writing guide

Commit message:

fix: remove non-standard version/license fields from frontmatter

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: agents
description: Generate and maintain AGENTS.md files following the public agents.md convention. This skill should be used when creating documentation for AI agent workflows, onboarding guides, or when standardizing agent interaction patterns across projects.
---

# AGENTS.md Generator Skill

Generate and maintain AGENTS.md files following the public agents.md convention.

## What This Skill Does

Creates hierarchical AGENTS.md documentation for software projects:

- **Thin root files** (~30 lines) with precedence rules and global defaults
- **Scoped files** for subsystems (backend/, frontend/, internal/, cmd/, etc.)
- **Auto-extracted commands** from Makefile, package.json, composer.json, go.mod
- **Managed headers** marking files as agent-maintained with timestamps
- **Language-specific templates** for Go, PHP, TypeScript, Python, and hybrid projects
- **Idempotent updates** that preserve existing structure

Based on analysis of 21 real AGENTS.md files across Netresearch projects.

## When to Use This Skill

- **New projects**: Establish baseline AGENTS.md structure
- **Existing projects**: Standardize agent documentation
- **Team onboarding**: Provide AI assistants with project context
- **Multi-repo consistency**: Apply same standards across repositories
- **Documentation updates**: Refresh after major changes

## Usage

### Generate for Current Project

```bash
# Basic generation (thin root + auto-detected scopes)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh .

# Dry-run to preview what will be created
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --dry-run

# Verbose output with detection details
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --verbose
```

### Template Styles

```bash
# Thin root (default, ~30 lines, simple-ldap-go style)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --style=thin

# Verbose root (~100-200 lines, ldap-selfservice style)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --style=verbose
```

### Update Existing Files

```bash
# Update timestamps and refresh auto-extracted content
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --update

# Force regeneration (overwrites existing, keeps structure)
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --force
```

### Validation

```bash
# Validate existing AGENTS.md structure
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/validate-structure.sh .

# Check for missing scoped files
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .
```

## Supported Project Types

### Languages & Frameworks

- **Go**: Libraries, web apps (Fiber/Echo/Gin), CLI tools (Cobra/urfave/cli)
- **PHP**: Composer packages, TYPO3 extensions, Laravel/Symfony apps
- **TypeScript/JavaScript**: React, Next.js, Vue, Node.js, Express
- **Python**: pip, poetry, pipenv, Django, Flask, FastAPI
- **Hybrid**: Multi-language projects (auto-creates scoped files per stack)

### Detection Signals

| Signal | Detection |
|--------|-----------|
| `go.mod` | Go project, extracts version |
| `composer.json` | PHP project, detects TYPO3/Laravel |
| `package.json` | Node.js project, detects framework |
| `pyproject.toml` | Python project, detects poetry/ruff |
| `Makefile` | Extracts targets with `##` comments |
| `.github/workflows/` | Extracts CI checks |
| `docker-compose.yml` | Docker-first setup |

## Output Structure

### Thin Root (Default)

**~30 lines** following `simple-ldap-go` pattern:

```markdown
<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections & order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD -->

# AGENTS.md (root)

**Precedence:** The **closest AGENTS.md** to changed files wins. Root holds global defaults only.

## Global rules
- Keep PRs small (~≤300 net LOC)
- Conventional Commits: type(scope): subject
- Ask before: heavy deps, full e2e, repo rewrites
- Never commit secrets or PII

## Minimal pre-commit checks
- Typecheck: [auto-detected from build tools]
- Lint: [auto-detected from linters]
- Format: [auto-detected from formatters]
- Tests: [auto-detected from test runners]

## Index of scoped AGENTS.md
- `./backend/AGENTS.md` — Backend services
- `./frontend/AGENTS.md` — Frontend application

## When instructions conflict
Nearest AGENTS.md wins. User prompts override files.
```

### Scoped Files (9-Section Schema)

Each scoped file follows this structure:

1. **Overview**: Purpose of this subsystem
2. **Setup & environment**: Prerequisites, installation
3. **Build & tests**: File-scoped commands (preferred)
4. **Code style & conventions**: Language-specific standards
5. **Security & safety**: Security practices
6. **PR/commit checklist**: Pre-commit requirements
7. **Good vs. bad examples**: Concrete code samples
8. **When stuck**: Where to find help
9. **House Rules** (optional): Overrides of global rules

### Managed Header

All generated files include:

```html
<!-- Managed by agent: keep sections & order; edit content, not structure. Last updated: 2025-10-18 -->
```

This marks files as agent-maintained and provides update tracking.

## Auto-Detection Features

### Project Type Detection

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-project.sh .
{
  "type": "go-web-app",
  "language": "go",
  "version": "1.24",
  "build_tool": "make",
  "has_docker": true,
  "quality_tools": ["golangci-lint", "gofmt"],
  "test_framework": "testing",
  "ci": "github-actions"
}
```

### Scope Detection

Automatically creates scoped AGENTS.md for directories with ≥5 source files:

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .
{
  "scopes": [
    {"path": "internal", "type": "backend-go", "files": 15},
    {"path": "cmd", "type": "cli", "files": 3},
    {"path": "examples", "type": "examples", "files": 8}
  ]
}
```

### Command Extraction

Extracts actual commands from build tools:

```bash
$ /tmp/agents-skill/scripts/extract-commands.sh .
{
  "typecheck": "go build -v ./...",
  "lint": "golangci-lint run ./...",
  "format": "gofmt -w .",
  "test": "go test -v -race -short ./...",
  "build": "go build -o bin/app ./cmd/app"
}
```

## Examples

Real-world examples from Netresearch projects in `references/examples/`:

### Go Library (simple-ldap-go)

**Perfect thin root** (26 lines):
- Minimal global rules
- File-scoped commands
- Clear scope index
- No duplication

### Hybrid App (ldap-selfservice-password-changer)

**Go backend + TypeScript frontend**:
- Root with quick navigation
- Scoped: `internal/AGENTS.md` (Go)
- Scoped: `internal/web/AGENTS.md` (TypeScript + Tailwind)

### PHP TYPO3 Extension (t3x-rte_ckeditor_image)

**Composer-based with Make targets**:
- Root with emoji headers
- Scoped: `Classes/AGENTS.md` (PHP backend)
- Scoped: `Documentation/AGENTS.md` (RST docs)
- Scoped: `Tests/AGENTS.md` (PHPUnit tests)

### Python CLI (coding_agent_cli_toolset)

**Script-heavy toolset**:
- Root with precedence focus
- Scoped: `scripts/AGENTS.md`

## Customization

### Override Templates

Copy templates to project and modify:

```bash
cp /tmp/agents-skill/templates/root-thin.md ./.agents-templates/root.md
# Edit ./.agents-templates/root.md
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --template-dir=./.agents-templates
```

### Add Custom Sections

Templates support placeholders:
- `{{PROJECT_NAME}}` - From package.json/composer.json/go.mod
- `{{PROJECT_TYPE}}` - Auto-detected type
- `{{LANGUAGE}}` - Primary language
- `{{BUILD_COMMANDS}}` - Extracted commands
- `{{QUALITY_TOOLS}}` - Detected linters/formatters
- `{{TIMESTAMP}}` - Current date (YYYY-MM-DD)

## Idempotent Updates

Safe to run multiple times:

1. Checks existing files
2. Preserves custom content in sections
3. Updates only auto-extracted parts (commands, versions)
4. Refreshes timestamps
5. Adds missing sections
6. No changes if nothing updated

## Validation

```bash
# Check structure compliance
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/validate-structure.sh .

# Validates:
# ✅ Root is thin (≤50 lines or has index)
# ✅ All scoped files have 9 sections
# ✅ Managed headers present
# ✅ Precedence statement in root
# ✅ Links from root to scoped files work
# ✅ No duplicate content between root and scoped
```

## Integration with Claude Code

### As Marketplace Skill

Add to `claude-code-marketplace`:

```json
{
  "name": "agents",
  "description": "Generate AGENTS.md files following public convention",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "source": "./skills/agents"
}
```

### Direct Usage

```bash
# Clone skill
git clone https://github.com/netresearch/agents-skill.git /tmp/agents-skill

# Generate for current project
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh .
```

## Structure Standards Application

**When creating root AGENTS.md files**, keep them thin (~30 lines):
- Include clear precedence statement at top
- Define minimal global rules only (PR size, commit format, safety)
- List pre-commit checks (typecheck, lint, format, test)
- Provide scope index linking to scoped files
- Move detailed setup to scoped files (not in root)
- Move language-specific patterns to scoped files (not in root)
- Move extensive examples to scoped files (not in root)

**When determining scope boundaries**, create scoped files for:
- Different technology stacks: `backend/`, `frontend/`, `api/`
- Package visibility: `internal/`, `pkg/` (Go projects)
- CLI tools: `cmd/`, `cli/`
- Utility scripts: `scripts/`
- Documentation and examples: `docs/`, `examples/`
- Testing infrastructure: `tests/`, `testutil/`

**When extracting commands**, automate extraction from:
- Makefile targets with `##` comments
- package.json scripts section
- composer.json scripts section
- CI workflow files (.github/workflows/, .gitlab-ci.yml)
- Never manually duplicate commands that exist in build tools

## Troubleshooting

### No Commands Detected

```bash
# Check what was detected
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/extract-commands.sh . --verbose

# Fallback: Specify commands manually
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --commands='{"lint":"make lint","test":"make test"}'
```

### Wrong Project Type

```bash
# Override auto-detection
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --type=go-library

# Supported types:
# go-library, go-web-app, go-cli
# php-library, php-typo3, php-laravel
# typescript-react, typescript-node
# python-library, python-cli
# hybrid
```

### Scoped File Not Created

```bash
# Check scope detection
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/detect-scopes.sh .

# Manually specify scopes
/tmp/agents-skill/scripts/generate-agents.sh . --scopes=internal,cmd,examples
```

## Contributing

Improvements welcome! Common additions:
- New language templates
- Better command extraction
- Additional validation rules
- More real-world examples

## License

GPL-2.0-or-later (matching other Netresearch skills)

## References

- **Analysis**: `references/analysis.md` - Analysis of 21 real AGENTS.md files
- **Prompt**: `references/prompt.md` - Original generation prompt/rule
- **Examples**: `references/examples/` - Real-world AGENTS.md files
- **Best Practices**: `references/best-practices.md` - Writing guide
